# Heroku buildpack: Clojure

This is a Heroku buildpack for Clojure apps. It uses
[Leiningen](http://leiningen.org).

Note that you don't have to do anything special to use this buildpack
with Clojure apps on Heroku; it will be used by default for all
projects containing a project.clj file, though it may be an older
revision than current master. 

This repository is made available so users can fork for their own
needs and contribute patches back as well as for transparency.

## Usage

Example usage for an app already stored in git:

    $ tree
    |-- Procfile
    |-- project.clj
    |-- README
    `-- src
        `-- sample
            `-- core.clj

    $ heroku create --stack cedar --buildpack http://github.com/heroku/heroku-buildpack-clojure.git

    $ git push heroku master
    ...
    -----> Heroku receiving push
    -----> Fetching custom buildpack
    -----> Clojure app detected
    -----> Installing Leiningen
           Downloading: leiningen-2.0.0-preview10-standalone.jar
           Writing: lein script
    -----> Building with Leiningen
           Running: with-profile production compile :all
           Downloading: org/clojure/clojure/1.2.1/clojure-1.2.1.pom from central
           Downloading: org/clojure/clojure/1.2.1/clojure-1.2.1.jar from central
           Copying 1 file to /tmp/build_2e5yol0778bcw/lib
    -----> Discovering process types
           Procfile declares types -> core
    -----> Compiled slug size is 10.0MB
    -----> Launching... done, v4
           http://gentle-water-8841.herokuapp.com deployed to Heroku

The buildpack will detect your app as Clojure if it has a
`project.clj` file in the root. If you use the
[clojure-maven-plugin](https://github.com/talios/clojure-maven-plugin),
[the standard Java buildpack](http://github.com/heroku/heroku-buildpack-java)
should work instead. Leiningen 1.7.1 will be used by default, but if
you have `:min-lein-version "2.0.0"` in project.clj then Leiningen 2.x
will be used instead.

## Configuration

By default your project is built by running `lein deps` under
Leiningen 1.x and `lein compile :all` under Leiningen 2.x. To
customize this, check in a `bin/build` script into your project and it
will be run instead of invoking `lein` directly.

If you are using Leiningen 2.x, it's highly recommended that you use
the `:production` profile to avoid having tests and development
dependencies on your classpath in production. By default the
`:production` profile configures a mirror setting for faster
dependency fetching from S3; if you place a `:production` profile in
your project.clj you should do the same:

```clj
  :production {:misc "configuration"
               :mirrors {#"central|clojars"
                         "http://s3pository.herokuapp.com/clojure"}}
```

You should reduce memory consumption by using the `trampoline` task in
your Procfile. This will cause Leiningen to calculate the classpath
and code to run for your project, then exit and execute your project's
JVM:

    web: lein with-profile production trampoline run -m myapp.web

## Hacking

To change this buildpack, fork it on GitHub. Push up changes to your
fork, then create a test app with `--buildpack YOUR_GITHUB_URL` and
push to it. If you already have an existing app you may use
`heroku config:add BUILDPACK_URL=YOUR_GITHUB_URL` instead.

For example, you could adapt it to generate an uberjar at build time.

Open `bin/compile` in your editor, and replace the block labeled
"fetch deps with lein" with something like this:

    echo "-----> Generating uberjar with Leiningen:"
    echo "       Running: LEIN_NO_DEV=y lein uberjar"
    cd $BUILD_DIR
    PATH=.lein/bin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/bin JAVA_OPTS="-Xmx500m -Duser.home=$BUILD_DIR" LEIN_NO_DEV=y lein uberjar 2>&1 | sed -u 's/^/       /'
    if [ "${PIPESTATUS[*]}" != "0 0" ]; then
      echo " !     Failed to create uberjar with Leiningen"
      exit 1
    fi

Commit and push the changes to your buildpack to your GitHub fork,
then push your sample app to Heroku to test. The output should include:

    -----> Generating uberjar with Leiningen:

If it's something other users would find useful, pull requests are welcome.

## Troubleshooting

To see what the buildpack has produced, do `heroku run bash` and you
will be logged into an environment with your compiled app available.
From there you can explore the filesystem and run `lein` commands.
